# Overview

This repository contains code to support the download of images and metadata
from two free and publically available datasets.

Example notebooks for how to use the provided code can be found under the
[example_notebooks subfolder](example_notebooks/) of this repository.

## Installing tools

To install the tools provided by this repository simply:

```
# Feel free to change /tmp/open_dataset_tools to whatever location works best for you

> git clone https://github.com/AllenInstitute/open_dataset_tools /tmp/open_dataset_tools

# Don't forget to activate the python environment you want to install this package into
# The following example creates an environment using Anaconda Python
# See: https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html

> conda create --yes --name open_dataset_tools python=3.8
> conda activate open_dataset_tools
> cd /tmp/open_dataset_tools
> pip install .[full]
```

## Running the example notebooks for yourself

Once you've installed the package you can access and try running the example
notebooks with:

```
> conda activate open_dataset_tools
> cd /tmp/open_dataset_tools/example_notebooks
> jupyter notebook
```

## Allen Mouse Brain Atlas
The [Allen Mouse Brain Atlas](https://registry.opendata.aws/allen-mouse-brain-atlas/)
is now hosted on AWS.

The Jupyter notebook [Accessing_Allen_Mouse_Brain_Atlas_Data.ipynb](example_notebooks/Accessing_Allen_Mouse_Brain_Atlas_Data.ipynb)
demonstrates all of the helper functions necessary to download and view
images from the atlas. It also demonstrates functions for downloading
metadata and loading them as python data structures for easy searching,
so that users can identify the images that will be most helpful in their
research.

This module uses the open source [boto3](https://github.com/boto/boto3) API
to interface with AWS S3.

## Ivy Glioblastoma Atlas Project

The Jupyter notebook [Accessing_Ivy_Glioblastoma_Atlas_Project_Data.ipynb](example_notebooks/Accessing_Ivy_Glioblastoma_Atlas_Project_Data.ipynb) demonstrates how to
programmatically search, download, and interact with images from the
[Ivy Glioblastoma Atlas Project](https://glioblastoma.alleninstitute.org/).

# Level of Support

This module is provided as a means to give the broader neuroscience community
access to the data generated by the Allen Institute. As such, we are very
interested in maintaining the code so that it remains useful. Please file
any bug reports through [GitHub](https://github.com/AllenInstitute/open_dataset_tools/issues).
We will consider pull requests, so long as they do not conflict with internal
Institute policies regarding software.
